Name: Omar Ozgur
ID: 704465898
Class: CS111
Lab Section: 1C
Project: 1a

*** README ***

File Information:

        README: This file gives information about the files that are included in the project, as well
        as information regarding features and methods of testing.

        Makefile: This is the makefile that was created to automate useful tasks. The "make" command
        causes the default target to be executed, which builds object files, as well as the resulting
        "lab1a" executable. "make clean" can be used to delete all makefile-created files from the project
        directory. "make dist" can be used to create a distributable tarball containing the files "lab1a.c",
        "Makefile", and "README".

        lab1a.c: This is the C program that was created for this project. After building the executable program
	"lab1a", the program can be run with the command "./lab1a" in order to place the console into character-
	at-a-time, no echo mode. When characters are entered from the keyboard, the characters are read into a
	buffer. These characters could then be analyzed or modified before being written to standard output one
	character at a time. The functionality was achieved by manipulating processes, threads, signal handlers, 
	pipes, console settings, and more. This "C" file has comments that explain sections of code in further detail.

Options:
	
	--shell: Using the "--shell" option causes a new child process to be created, which runs a bash shell.
        Characters from the keyboard are piped into the shell, which allows for commands to be executed. The results
        are piped to a second thread in the parent process.

Limitations:
	
	One limitation of the program is that there are many possible signals that were not given custom signal
	handlers. If any unexpected signals are received when the "--shell" option is being used, the program will 
	likely terminate without first notifying the shell in the child process. Further work would need to be done
	to ensure that most signals cause the program to exit as expected.
